---
layout: post
title: Week Ten 
---

Last week in Software Engineering, we talked more about the behavior of different SQL joins. More specifically, we discussed Natrual Joins, Left joins, Right joins, Theta joins and Cross joins.
Though all of these join techniques are very similar, they have subtle (but very important!) differences. Cross joins is easy to remember - it works similarly to a cross product. When cross joined, each row from table A will paired with each row from table B.
This will result in a total of |A| * |B| tuples.

Left and right joins are similar to each other. The result of A left join B will be all the tuples of A, plus any tuples of B that match on an attribute of A.

Theta joins are my personal favorite, and the most useful in my opinion. Theta joins allow you to specify a boolean predicate, and the join will only take place when the predicate is satisfied.
For example, say we are joining a table Students, and a table Applications. If we want to see which application goes to which student, we would need a theta join. We could specify to the join that we want to join only when Student.ID == Application.ApplicantID.


Aside from talking about joins, we also turned in part 2 of our database site. With this iteration, we need to implement our actual database with live data. In part one, we simply had static webpages serving hard coded data subsets. 
This has now been fixed, and Smashdb.me has a fully functioning, live database. We also did some more work on the CSS and styling of our webpage, however there is still much work to be in this area.
We have also acheived our 3750 word count goal on our documentation wiki, and are ready to move on.

My tip of the week is this very informative article that does a great job explaining the differences between all of the joins.
http://www.sql-join.com/
