---
layout: post
title: Week One
---

Being the first week of class, we spent the first meeting talking about syllabus information, and setting expectations for the class. After finishing the common first-day things, we began to talk about our first project - Collatz. The Collatz Conjecture is pretty simple in concept. The rules of the conjecture say that even numbers will be divided by 2, and odd numbers will be multiplied by 3, and incremented once. The conjecture claims that by iteratively applying these two rules to any starting number, we will eventually get to the number 1. Writing code for the conjecture itself will not be difficult, but we must integrate our project with version control (through git), unit tests, acceptance tests, and a CI (through Travis CI). We must also build an intelligent cache that will speed up the runtime of the conjecture without sacrificing too much space.

So far I finished setting up the collatz repository, including getting the starter code in place, passing all the default unit tests, and hooking up the repo to TravisCI. That process took a decent amount of time by itself, so now that it's out of the way, I can start making real progress on the actual coding aspect of the project. 

I will be able to finish the project sometime (hopefully early) next week. I will also need to make sure that I format my work to satisfy the requirements of Sphere Online Judge, and submit through their site. SpOJ will have test cases that exercise the rigidity of my cache, so I'll have to make sure I'm fully prepared for that.

Overall, I'm looking forward to seeing what I can learn from this class. I don't imagine that the projects will be teaching me a lot that I don't already know about python, but I don't think that's the point. I believe the point of the project is to give us exposure to the types of tools that are actually going to be used in industry to streamline the development cycle.
 
Tip-of-the-week: CIs seem like a really great tool for easy, and streamlined integration when working on a large project (And especially when there are many developers working). Whenever there is a push to any development branch, the CI will automatically run all unit tests in attempts to find and remove bugs /before/ introducing them into the master branch.

