---
layout: post
title: Week Six 
---

This week in Software Engineering, we have been preparing for our test. We finished the last lecture by touching on Decorators, and how they are useful. At the beginning of the lecture, I didn't really see the point, but after the lecture I understood what makes them helpful. A Decorator is almost just a function wrapper - it takes in a function as a parameter, and returns a callable function that does almost the same thing. It essentially allows you to add some arbitrary code to any function without actually altering the source of the initial function. What I can see being very useful is a time_function decorator - something that takes in a function, starts a timer, runs the function, and reports how long the function took. It would look something like this:

def time_function(func):
  
  def f():
  
    start = time.time()
    
    func()
    
    print(time.time()-start)
  
  return f
  
Now, if we have some function, g, and we want to see how long it will take to run, we must simply do the following:

timed_g = time_function(g)

timed_g()

Now this will do anything g() would do, plus output the time it took to run.


In the upcoming week of Software Engineering, we will be taking our first exam. Fortunately, Decorators will not be covered on the exam. However there will be plenty of confusing enough topics. Generators still confuse me, somewhat. Generators are created Lazily, and are also exhaustible. The lazy creation of generators can be showcased in the following example:

x = [1]

y = (i for i in x)

x += [2,]

Now, when we print y, what will we get? It seems the two options that make sense are y=[1], and y=[1,2], but which is correct? Because y is not populated until we need it (say, print it out, or access y in some other way), the second option is the correct one. Y will equal [1,2]. The second time we access y (say, print it out a second time), y will be empty. This happens because we have already exhausted y, meaning it will no longer generate contents. This behavior showcases the exhaustible aspect of generators.

Because the exam is coming up soon, my tip of the week is this informative article talking about the inner workings of generators:
http://www.python-course.eu/generators.php
